## Puppet - Configuration

### Configuration File
The main configuration file for Puppet is **etc/puppet/puppet.conf**. 
All the configuration files get created in a package-based configuration of Puppet. 
Most of the configuration that is required to configure Puppet is kept in these files and once the Puppet run takes place, it picks up those configurations automatically. 

👉 However, for some specific tasks such as configuring a web server or an external Certificate Authority (CA), Puppet has separate configuration for files and settings.

👉Server configuration files are located in **conf.d** directory which is also known as the Puppet master. 

👉 These files are by default located under **/etc/puppetlabs/puppetserver/conf.d** path. 

These config files are in HOCON format, which keeps the basic structure of JSON but it is more readable. When the Puppet startup takes place it picks up all .cong files from conf.d directory and 
uses them for making any configurational changes. Any changes in these files only takes place when the server is restarted.

### Puppet.conf
Puppet.conf file is Puppet’s main configuration file. Puppet uses the same configuration file to configure all the required Puppet command and services. All Puppet related settings such as the definition of Puppet master, Puppet agent, Puppet apply and certificates are defined in this file. Puppet can refer them as per requirement.


#### Config Section
Puppet configuration file mainly consists of the following config sections.

- Main − This is known as the global section which is used by all the commands and services in Puppet. One defines the default values in the main section which can be overridden by any section present in puppet.conf file.

- Master − This section is referred by Puppet master service and Puppet cert command.

- Agent − This section is referred by Puppet agent service.

- User − It is mostly used by Puppet apply command as well as many of the less common commands.
